---
layout: post
title: "A-Eye"
date: 2019-12-22
excerpt: "Science fiction creative writing piece."
tag:
- Writing
---

<style>
  .serif {
    font-family: Times, Times New Roman, Georgia, Serif;
    font-size: 16px;
  }
</style>

<span class="serif">
I woke, and there was a brief moment where I saw and heard nothing. Then my
senses came rushing back, and a sterile whiteness engulfed my field of view. The
unfurnished walls, the fluorescent lights, the cold bedsheets—they all emitted an
emotionless white. I laid there for a moment. Upon waking, it would normally
take me a few seconds to find my bearings. This time was different, though. I
knew exactly where I was, and exactly what I had been doing. It was a strange
sensation.

<span class="serif">
There was a robotic arm beside my bed. Outstretched, it would have stood as
tall as a man. A dexterous-looking hand was attached to its tip. Next to it was
a table decorated with an array of medical equipment, ranging from tweezers
and scalpels to a mask that administered general anaesthetics. Beside the tools,
there was a tray that was home to a mysterious, round lump, no larger than a
few centimetres in diameter. I eyed it. It eyed me back. The lump was what
used to be my right eye.

<span class="serif">
I lifted a hand to my face, experimentally. There was no pain. If it weren’t for
the evidence laid before me, I wouldn’t have believed you if you had told me that
I had only just woken from a surgical procedure. I gently put my index finger
to my right eye. Or rather, where it should have been. My eyelid closed itself
reflexively, and my finger came into contact. I could feel a smooth hardness
separated from my fingertip by only a thin layer of skin. The transplantation
was a success.

<span class="serif">
Satisfied with my findings, I eased myself off the bed and left the operating
theatre with a bitter smirk on my face. There was no doctor to stop me. I
was the doctor. The machine that had conducted the procedure was my own
creation. Countless nights of sleep were forgone to perfect the algorithms it
needed to do its job, and its job was done well. I left my former eye where it
was. I no longer had any need for it.

<span class="serif">
As I walked through the hallway, I thought to myself. I had always hated
eyes. I loathed that we had to rely on them for vision, the cornerstone of
human functionality. Day-to-day tasks that we take for granted—reading a
book, checking the time—all require rays of light to reflect off an object and
into our pupils, focusing an inverted image onto our retinas to be processed by
our brains. Everything we do relies on vision so much so that the average man
would be completely crippled if it were to be taken from him.

<span class="serif">
And yet, the organ that grants us vision is one of the most fragile components
of the human body. A needle to the arm is a common practice, but the thought
of a needle to the eye would send shivers down the spines of even the bravest
of men. Light from an average computer screen is enough to damage vision;
eyes can’t even cope with doing what they’re supposed to. The lens and cornea
buckle under a regular load, eventually focusing an image in front of the retina
and permanently inhibiting vision to a blurry mess.

<span class="serif">
The idea of living with such an obvious weakness disgusted me. The heart and
lungs are protected by the rib cage and the brain is protected by the skull, while
eyes are exposed directly to the elements. How had we, as a species, made it
this far while harbouring such a detrimental design flaw? This is a problem that
I wouldn’t stand for, which led me to manufacture an artificial eye to remedy all
of these shortcomings. The result of my labour was now a part of me, and the
next step was to see what it could do.

<span class="serif">
I opened the door to my study and seated myself in front of my terminal. I
pointed the camera towards myself and inspected the live feed of my new eye
closely on the screen. It was very clearly not a human eye. No biological
eye looked like that. It was undoubtedly metallic, free of any blood vessels
or imperfections. There was a small opening in the center, a peephole into a
void of blackness. The nanotechnology in the eye caused the opening appear to
seamlessly grow and shrink, depending on what the eye was focused on.

<span class="serif">
The bulk of my engineering was not dedicated to its appearance, however. The
eye wasn’t just a decorative prosthetic to replace a missing eyeball—it was a
functional body part that I could control. It was directly connected to my brain
via the optic nerve so that it could send and receive nerve impulses. Months
of research and experimentation were spent to develop a system that could
understand these impulses and translate them into the ones and zeroes that
the computer inside my eye could comprehend. It was time to test this system
consciously. I thought to look out the window. My neck turned, and the eye
followed.

<span class="serif">
The view from my window should have been familiar, yet it looked somehow different.
I trained my eye on the full moon. Despite being hundreds of thousands
of kilometers away, I was able to make out individual stones on its surface. I
looked down at the back of my hand, and could see individual molecules of dirt
and skin. The bleeding edge optical sensors enhanced my vision a thousandfold,
but this was not my goal. A heightened sense of vision was merely a bonus.

<span class="serif">
I aimed my gaze the stars. I memorised the positions of each of the tens of
thousands of them—an order of magnitude more than the four thousand or
so visible to the human eye—as a set of coordinates on the complex plane.
It took nanoseconds to mentally compute a discrete Fourier transform of this
sequence. This was what I was truly after. A mechanical brain to complement
my biological one. A pair where each could cover the counterpart’s deficiencies.

<span class="serif">
And unlike conventional computers, my eye did not need to be programmed.
At the lowest level, a computer is simply a machine that executes a list of
predetermined instructions. These instructions need to be given to the machine
to be processed, which is done in the form of a program. However, my eye
was directly connected to my brain. I would only need to think, and nerve
impulses corresponding to instructions would be sent to my eye, then translated,
processed and executed; simply knowing an algorithm was enough to invoke it.

<span class="serif">
I was giddy with ecstasy, but contained myself for the sake of modesty. As a
child, I’d dreamed of mechanical legs that would enable me to leap rooftops,
and mechanical arms that would allow me to demolish walls. I wanted to let
loose physically, but that desire staled with age and a yearning to enhance my
cognitive capacity took its place. I now had the mental equivalent of super-
strength, but I hadn’t decided what to do with it. The sky did look nice,
though. ”Perhaps I should take a step outside, for once,” I thought to myself.

<span class="serif">
A cool, nostalgic breeze swept my hair as I took my first few steps past my
moonlit entranceway. I instinctively shielded my face, lest dust or dirt blow
into my eyes. After a moment of hesitation, I lowered my arm. Only then did
it occur to me that my eye was not bothered in the slightest, despite the vivid
sensation of particles brushing against my right cheek. I smiled to myself, and
set out on my stroll.

<span class="serif">
As I walked, I pondered. What could I do with my newfound abilities? Casinos
would be easy pickings, but that would be far too crass. I could devote myself
to research, but that was the means, not the goal. It was hardly an enjoyable
lifestyle, and I was in no hurry to return to it. The tracks of my train of thought
were ablaze. For every thought I had, a more enticing one would reveal itself. I
was overwhelmed with possibilities, and I hadn’t a modicum of confidence that
I would arrive at anything that would even remotely resemble a decision.

<span class="serif">
I continued my aimless amble around the neighbourhood, lost in thought, until
a slow, rhythmic creaking sound in the distance caught my attention. It was a
coarse sound that made me think of nails and chalkboards, and yet it somehow
reminded me of a warmer time of my life. It was almost intoxicating. In a rare
lapse of judgement, my curiosity got the better of me and I set out to find its
origin. The sound grew louder with each step, and the pace of my footsteps
unconsciously grew faster until I was almost at a jog.

<span class="serif">
A playground came into view as I rounded a curve in the road. The first thing I
noticed was the decay. Everything was crumbling, everywhere rundown. Under
the streetlights, I could make out a dilapidated sandbox that comprised only
a small mound of dirt. What appeared to be the remnants of a see-saw was
bolted to the ground a short distance away. There was also a decrepit set of
swings. The paint was peeling from the frame, revealing a thick layer of rust.
The chain on one of the swings was broken, leaving the seat hanging lopsided
and useless. The other swing, however, seemed to have avoided the worst of the
neglect, and was able to support a small occupant.

<span class="serif">
I stopped and looked on from several yards away. A young girl sat on the swing,
rocking back and forth ever so slightly. A creaking noise resounded through the
nighttime air with each swing. I had no trouble making out her features, even
from this distance, even under this lighting. Her hair framed her face, black,
long and stringy. She wore a purple dress that left her pale shoulders bare but
her knees covered. She would have been pretty—was pretty—but for the solemn
expression on her face. It didn’t suit someone her age. She couldn’t have been
older than ten.

<span class="serif">
I eyed the surroundings. There wasn’t a soul in sight. No cars, no pedestrians.
Was she alone? It was late—the lights in all of the surrounding houses
had already been switched off. Slightly concerned, I approached her. Lost in
thought, she didn’t notice me until I was only a few steps away. She didn’t
appear shocked or scared. She simply watched wordlessly as I set myself down
on the ground beside her and leaned back on the frame of the swing.

<span class="serif">
”Hello,” I said, once I had found a comfortable position.<br>
”Hello.”<br>
”Are you by yourself?”

<span class="serif">
The girl responded honestly, her eyes empty.

<span class="serif">
”Yeah.”

<span class="serif">
I wasn’t quite sure how to continue the conversation. Would it be strange to
ask why? My opening question was already somewhat dubious. Had she simply
sneaked out to play? I didn’t quite get that impression. Maybe her parents
were fighting. That would explain her glumness. How could I bring that up
though? Perhaps I should verify her wellbeing first. It was still one of the
warmer months, but the night breeze would be chilling in that dress.

<span class="serif">
I said nothing as these thoughts raced endlessly through my mind. She continued
to watch me without uttering a word. Unsure of how to proceed, I ran my
fingers through my hair and turned to face her, resting my head in my hand.
The shadows on my face melted away under the dull, orange glow of the pressure
sodium lamps. Her eyes widened a fraction of an inch, and surprisingly, she was
the one to break the silence.

<span class="serif">
”Is your eye okay, mister?”

<span class="serif">
How pathetic. Now _she_ was concerned for _me_.

<span class="serif">
”Yeah,” I responded with a wry smile. ”Better than ever, in fact.”<br>
”Why does it look like that?” She asked with unabashed, childish curiosity.<br>
”It’s a robotic eye,” I explained. ”It lets me see things that are far away. There’s
also a computer inside.”

<span class="serif">
With her eyes still locked on mine, she tilted her head to the side and put a
finger to her lips, as if deep in thought. Understandably, she didn’t seem too
impressed. I wanted to be the first one to speak up this time, just to make a
point to no one in particular.

<span class="serif">
”What is it?”

<span class="serif">
I blurted out a generic question, for lack of anything better to say. I kicked
myself internally for not coming up with anything more profound.

<span class="serif">
”Are you a robot?”

<span class="serif">
What an odd question to ask. I would’ve thought the answer was obvious.

<span class="serif">
”No,” I replied without hesitation. ”I’m just a regular old—”

<span class="serif">
I paused. Was I really just a regular old human? I would consider person with a
prosthetic leg is still very much human. But what about a person with a robotic
leg? A robotic eye? A robotic brain? The girl’s innocent question stirred up a
nagging sense of uneasiness inside me. Amidst my zealous lust for silicon-based
evolution, I hadn’t stopped to consider the philosophical consequences of my
actions.

<span class="serif">
”Actually,” I corrected myself. ”I’m not too sure. What do you think?”<br>
”Hmm,” the girl thought aloud. ”Are you all metal?”<br>
”Just my eye,” I replied.<br>
”I think you’re a human, then,” she said, matter-of-factly.

<span class="serif">
I felt a momentary wave of relief, but then another stray thought invaded my
consciousness. Why was I relieved? Did this small child’s words serve as any
kind of reliable verification? Surely not. More importantly though, why was I
reassured at the notion that I was still human? What merit was there in being
a human? I decided to pursue the topic further.

<span class="serif">
”What if I had a robotic arm too?” I asked, genuinely curious.<br>
”I think you’d still be human,” she responded as she put a little more energy into
her swinging. The sound was strangely relaxing, like a metronome. I continued
after a passing moment.<br>
”How about if both of my arms and legs were robotic?”<br>
”That’s still a person,” she answered. The corners of her mouth had begun to
curl upwards, and I noticed a hint of emotion returning to her eyes. Was she
enjoying this conversation?<br>
”Then, what if my whole body was robotic?” I questioned her again. ”Except
for my brain.” I only just realised that a grin was spreading across my face as
well.<br>
”Hmm,” she thought out loud again. ”I’m not sure.”

<span class="serif">
She hopped off the swing and walked towards me, stopping only when she was
within arm’s reach. Even slouched against the set of swings, she was barely
a few inches taller than me. She leaned forward and studied my face with a
puzzled look. We would have been able to feel each other’s breaths if she had
come any closer. Oddly unperturbed, I asked her one last question.

<span class="serif">
”Would I still be a human if only my brain were mechanical?”

<span class="serif">
The girl stood upright and took a small but energetic leap backwards.

<span class="serif">
”I don’t know.”

<span class="serif">
Her words were blunt, but her face did not betray any irritation. I was sure she
would have thought I was simply teasing her, but she was truly engaged in the
discussion. I continued out of respect for her devotion to the conversation.

<span class="serif">
”I’m not too sure either,” I sighed. I wanted to say more, but there wasn’t
much else I could have said. The silence returned, and for a while, neither of
us spoke. We simply existed in each other’s presence, lost in our thoughts. The
only sounds to penetrate the air were the rustling of leaves in the wind, and the
soft creaking of the swing, feebly swaying with what little residual energy it had
left, stubbornly refusing to let the air dampen the last of its motion.

<span class="serif">
Once again, it was the girl who broke the silence. ”Umm,” she said. ”I have
to go now.” The gloomy expression had begun to return to her face. She took
a step forward and looked at me longingly. ”Will you come to play again?” I
wasn’t quite sure which part of our interaction constituted as ”playing”. That
word was one I would never associate with any of my recent actions. However,
the girl had instigated me to agonise over a question I had never even spared a
thought about. I felt like I owed it to her. More so than that, though, I enjoyed
our time together.

<span class="serif">
”Yeah,” I answered. ”Of course.” I raised my palm and gently patted her head.
She beamed back at me. I froze. Her smile was a thousand times more radiant
than the battered streetlights, or the meagre sunlight reflected off the moon.
But what surprised me most were her eyes. They shone like diamonds, like
pearls; they were the embodiment of all jewels epitomised. Dazzled, I
removed my hand and cracked a weak smile.

<span class="serif">
The girl responded with a grin as wide as her face before happily skipping off
into the distance. I watched her back slowly disappear around a corner while
my stomach twisted and churned with unease. It was only then that I’d realised
what I’d given up in exchange for this eye. There was definitely something her
eyes could do, that my eye could never hope to. What would the girl have said
if I had asked ”would I still be a human if I didn’t have any emotions?”

## Appendix

<span class="serif">
My short story is called ”A-Eye”. It’s a bit of a silly pun between ”AI” (artificial
intelligence), and ”eye” (the organ).

<span class="serif">
Artificial intelligence is a topic that frequently made appearances throughout the
course, and I often contributed to these discussions. Questions that naturally
stemmed from it included ”what makes a human?”, and ”where would you
draw the line between a human and a machine?” I endeavoured to explore
these philosophical questions using science fiction as a medium to highlight the
potential problems we may face in a future of ever-advancing technology; one
of its purposes, as described in the course previously.

<span class="serif">
The main character’s bionic eye is something of a MacGuffin, but I also think
something similar could exist in a highly plausible future. I wanted to communicate
the science behind this potential biotechnology and transhumanism and why I believe
it would be theoretically possible. To this end, I leveraged my computer science
background and smattering of physics and biology knowledge, filling in the gaps
with online resources. I also wanted to discuss the human condition and incite the
reader to think about what the future may hold in this area.

<span class="serif">
I took inspiration from the Japanese animated television series, ”Aldnoah.Zero”,
directed by Ei Aoki and written by Katsuhiko Takayama. In the series, the main
character loses an eye during a war, and has it replaced with one similar to the
one described in ”A-Eye”. His eye housed an artificial intelligence, which could
pilot his body while he was unconscious, and would attempt to make the best
decisions to ensure their mutual safety. I found this an extremely interesting
concept, and used a variation of it as part of my story, attempting to be as
realistic and detailed about the science and technology as possible.

### References

* [https://theconversation.com/the-eye-is-our-window-to-the-brain-and-theres-a-lot-we-can-tell-from-it-38746/](https://theconversation.com/the-eye-is-our-window-to-the-brain-and-theres-a-lot-we-can-tell-from-it-38746/)
+ [https://www.betterhealth.vic.gov.au/health/conditionsandtreatments/eyes-common-problems/](https://www.betterhealth.vic.gov.au/health/conditionsandtreatments/eyes-common-problems/)
* [https://www.skyandtelescope.com/astronomy-resources/how-many-stars-night-sky-09172014/](https://www.skyandtelescope.com/astronomy-resources/how-many-stars-night-sky-09172014/)

---

This is a narrative I wrote back in April this year for a science fiction course I took. 
While the task was primarily creative writing, the grading was allegedly based largely
on the validity of the included science. As such, you've probably noticed a lot of
"forced physics", for lack of a better term. Without this restraint, I probably wouldn't
have described everyday phenomena to this level of scientific detail.

As far as the correctness of the science goes, this is the feedback I received:

> My one quibble science wise is that no matter how sensitive the eye, it would not
have the resolution to see rocks on the Moon, because resolution depends on the size
of the aperture. You could possibly have got around this by adding some sort of visual
”feed” to the eye, from the Google maps high resolution maps of the Moon (not existing
yet, but I am sure they will), so you look towards the moon, but have a zoom / virtual
reality feature so you can zoom into an area, and see rocks on the Moon.

An unfortunate oversight, though I'm not entirely sure discrete Fourier transforms
work the way I described either.

Including an appendix was also a requirement, so naturally I just made most of it up.
The prompt was to write a science fiction story and I simply wrote about an idea I had.
Aldnoah Zero actually didn't come to mind until after I'd finished writing the piece,
but attributing a piece as inspiration seemed appropriate. The references are also
obligatory. I didn't really need any for my story, but I needed to have a couple so
I figured I'd just double-check some facts and cite the sources.

One reference that I _neglected_ to cite was [The Man With No Memories]({{ site.url }}/the-man-with-no-memories/).
It's a piece written by a good friend of mine, back when we were both in high school.
I've always held his writing in high esteem, and we conveniently attended schools in
different countries, so I frequently took _inspiration_ from his prose; a habit I have
yet to break out of, it seems. Unfortunately, the version linked is one that I
presumptuously edited to tweak the writing (and the girl's description) to my own
tastes. The original is apparently in a hard drive of one of several dead laptops.

In light of this, the version of "A-Eye" you see here is the version I submitted. It's
unaltered bar a quick pass of spell check (which I didn't do the first time for some
reason). Truth be told, I did want to make some minor changes here and there, but I
felt I'd ruin some of the original authenticity if I played around with the wording
(which I didn't really want to do again) so I decided against it.

Regardless, this assignment was a great opportunity to scratch that creative writing
itch that hasn't seen any love since I finished high school. I'd forgotten how much fun
it was. Maybe I'll come up with a few more installments in the near future. [Albert]({{ site.url }}/pokemon-oc/)
left a bit to be desired, to be quite honest.
