---
layout: post
title:  "P5R: Optimal Persona Builds"
date: 2025-01-28
excerpt: "For cheaters and non-cheaters."
tag:
- Persona
- Shin Megami Tensei
---

Persona 5: The Royal is not a difficult game. Not compared to mainline Shin Megami Tensei or even compared to other Persona games, just in general. You'll have no problem beating the game on hard or challenge if you had the cognitive capacity to open this post, so just a foreword: this level of optimisation is not necessary.

That being said, P5R gives you a lot of tools to completely customise your personas. The simple act of playing around with fusions and achieving "perfect" builds is a big part of what I find enjoyable about Megaten, so here we go. This should also be a useful reference for pushing high scores on those challenge battles.

<iframe width="560" height="315" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/b1KfNEPKncQ?si=iA88Hw5IirlcB1Hm" title="YouTube video player" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; clipboard-write; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture; web-share" referrerpolicy="strict-origin-when-cross-origin" allowfullscreen></iframe>

### Table of Contents
<table style="width:100%">
  <tr>
    <td>
      <ul> <li><a href="#base-game-personas">Base Game</a> <ul> <li><a href="#general-purpose">General Purpose</a> <ul> <li><a href="#alice">Alice</a></li> <li><a href="#yoshitsune">Yoshitsune</a></li> <li><a href="#lucifer">Lucifer</a></li> </ul> </li> <li><a href="#elemental-damage">Elemental Damage</a> <ul> <li><a href="#satanael">Satanael</a></li> <li><a href="#trumpeter">Trumpeter</a></li> <li><a href="#alilat">Alilat</a></li> </ul> </li> <li><a href="#setups--technicals">Setups / Technicals</a> <ul> <li><a href="#nebiros">Nebiros</a></li> <li><a href="#belial">Belial</a></li> <li><a href="#abaddon">Abaddon</a></li> </ul> </li> <li><a href="#support">Support</a> <ul> <li><a href="#maria">Maria</a></li> <li><a href="#fafnir">Fafnir</a></li> </ul> </li> </ul> </li> </ul>
    </td>
    <td>
      <ul> <li><a href="#cheater-personas">DLC Personas</a> <ul> <li><a href="#general-purpose-1">General Purpose</a> <ul> <li><a href="#izanagi-no-okami">Izanagi-no-Okami</a></li> <li><a href="#thanatos">Thanatos</a></li> </ul> </li> <li><a href="#elemental-damage-1">Elemental Damage</a> <ul> <li><a href="#izanagi-no-okami-1">Izanagi-no-Okami</a></li> <li><a href="#kaguya">Kaguya</a></li> <li><a href="#tsukiyomi">Tsukiyomi</a></li> </ul> </li> <li><a href="#setups--technicals-1">Setups / Technicals</a> <ul> <li><a href="#raoul">Raoul</a></li> <li><a href="#asterius">Asterius</a></li> <li><a href="#satanael-1">Satanael</a></li> </ul> </li> <li><a href="#support-1">Support</a> <ul> <li><a href="#orpheus-f">Orpheus F</a></li> <li><a href="#kaguya-1">Kaguya</a></li> <li><a href="#ariadne">Ariadne</a></li> </ul> </li> </ul> </li> </ul>
    </td>
  </tr>
</table>

**Note:**
* Use the [recipe generator](https://aqiu384.github.io/megaten-fusion-tool/p5r/recipes) if you want to fuse any of these yourself
* Also see the [skill list](https://aqiu384.github.io/megaten-fusion-tool/p5r/skills) and [persona list](https://aqiu384.github.io/megaten-fusion-tool/p5r/skills) if you need a reference

{% capture images %}
    {{ site.url }}/assets/res/2025-01-28-p5-demons/1709501033573303.gif
{% endcapture %}
{% include gallery images=images %}

## Base Game Personas
---

On your first playthrough, ignore the DLC personas (and network fusion) if you want to have any semblance of engagement with the game's mechanics in an admittedly pretty poorly balanced game. The builds in this section will become available for late-game palaces, and can also be used to breeze through NG+ or rush challenge bosses.

## General Purpose

### Alice

| Trait: Omen |             |
|-------------|-------------|
| Die For Me! | Victory Cry |
| Mahamaon    | Insta-Heal  |
| Mudo Boost  | Ali Dance   |
| Hama Boost  | Repel Bless |

This build maxes out the success rate on AoE insta-kills to quickly clean up trash mobs in palaces and Mementos without needing to worry about hitting weaknesses, buffs and debuffs, baton passing, and all the other tedium you won't want to deal with in NG+. Daisoujou with Samsara and Mamudoon also works here (and is available much earlier), but just look at him—do you really want him on your team over Alice?

Along with Die for Me!, we also bring Mahamaon to hit enemies that resist curse. Victory Cry tops us up after every fight, and also means we can replace Alice's Just Die trait with Sandalphon's Omen for extra success rate, bringing Die for Me! to over 90% success rate and Mahamaon just shy of that. The rest is standard defensive utility.

### Yoshitsune

| Trait: Undying Fury |             |
|---------------------|-------------|
| Hassou Tobi         | Drain Wind  |
| Arms Master         | Drain Psy   |
| Drain Fire          | Drain Nuke  |
| Drain Ice           | Drain Curse |

Alice's insta-kill doesn't work on most bosses and red enemies, and won't work against curse or bless immunities either. This is where Yoshitsune comes in to provide physical damage with one of the highest damaging skills in the game, which is especially effective for bossing.

You could run a bunch of utility skills like Apt Pupil and Ali Dance, but there are a lot of slots to fill since Phys Boost / Amp don't exist in this game. As the only physical buff comes from Zaou-Gongen's trait, we may as well stack resitsances and make Yoshitsune immune to all but gun and almighty (notably the rarest elements in the game) so that we can brain off and press Hassou Tobi while the enemy heals us, just like ~~God~~ Yaldabaoth intended.

### Lucifer

| Trait: Mighty Gaze |              |
|--------------------|--------------|
| Morning Star       | Spell Master |
| Magic Ability      | Insta-Heal   |
| Almighty Boost     | Firm Stance  |
| Almighty Amp       | Drain Bless  |

If you ever run into enemies that resist physical *and* insta-kill (which is surprisingly not that uncommon in P5R) then Lucifer can sub in. Nothing resists almighty, and the auto-concentrate accessory from Sae's palace allows you to one-shot pretty much all trash mobs without any additional setup.

We bring Firm Stance instead of Ali Dance since Lucifer already has great inherent resistances, and Spell Master to make his usage more sustainable for drawn-out boss fights. No Victory Cry however means you'll need to swap in Alice every now and then if you're throwing Morning Star around palaces a bit too haphazardly.

## Elemental Damage

### Satanael

| Trait: Pagan Allure |               |
|---------------------|---------------|
| Blazing Hell        | Tyrant's Mind |
| Ice Age             | Magic Ability |
| Wild Thunder        | Spell Master  |
| Vacuum Wave         | Firm Stance   |

Normally passive boosts in P5R cap the total damage multiplier at `2.0x`, and traits stack on top of this. However Satanael's uniques work in reverse, where Pagan Allure (trait) caps at `2.0x` and Tyrant's Mind (passive) does not. The multiplier from from Pagan Allure, Magic Ability, and Tyrant's Mind respectively is `1.5 * 1.25 * 1.25 = 2.34`. So we can get a relatively high damage multiplier without sacrificing 2 slots per element for boost & amp, and can use those slots to cover additional elements instead.

Making the most of this, we can run the four severe elemental AoE spells to capitalize on common enemy weaknesses. Notably Vacuum Wave has slightly higher base power than the other three (presumably because it doesn't burn, shock, or freeze), but if you're just throwing out moves then you should probably switch personas. Satanael also has the resistances to abuse Firm Stance, which we'll round off with.

### Trumpeter

| Trait: Mighty Gaze |            |
|--------------------|------------|
| Cosmic Flare       | Nuke Boost |
| Psycho Blast       | Nuke Amp   |
| Magic Ability      | Psy Boost  |
| Spell Master       | Psy Amp    |

As Satanael only covers the four main elements, we also want a spell user that can cast Nuke and Psy attacks. This could be any demon since we're not using any unique skills or traits, but I'm opting for Trumpeter as he has excellent resists and no weaknesses. It probably would have been more appropriate to make him a Bless / Curse user, but I find Nuke / Psy attacks much more useful.

Amp + Boost + Magic Ability gives us `1.5 * 1.25 * 1.25 = 2.34` which caps at `2.0`, and Mighty Gaze stacks on this for a `2.0 * 1.2 = 2.4x` multiplier on Cosmic Flare and Psycho Blast. This gives us one free slot which we can use for Spell Master, since Trumpeter doesn't have any weaknesses we need to cover.

### Alilat

| Trait: Pagan Allure |              |
|---------------------|--------------|
| Makougaon           | Absorb Fire  |
| Maeigaon            | Absorb Nuke  |
| Magic Ability       | Absorb Bless |
| Spell Master        | Absorb Curse |

Similar to the above, this could be any demon. However Alilat also has good resistances, so I'm opting for him to cover bless and curse damage. Unfortunately the highest-tier bless and curse spells are DLC-locked (and rightly so), but bless and curse spells do have higher base damage than the other elemental spells of the same tier.

Unlike Trumpeter, Alilat has a couple of weaknesses that need to be addressed so we won't have enough skill slots load up on boosts and amps. Instead we can bring Pagan Allure and lean into his existing resists to make him close to all-immune, while still getting a respectable `1.5 * 1.25 = 1.875x` damage multiplier. Unfortunately Tyrant's Mind is unique, so we can't get that here.

## Setups / Technicals

### Nebiros

| Trait: Gloomy Child |               |
|---------------------|---------------|
| Wage War            | Ailment Boost |
| Lullaby             | Ambient Aid   |
| Nocturnal Flash     | Ali Dance     |
| Makajamaon          | Repel Bless   |

We're well into challenge battle territory at this point; you probably won't be doing any of this in a palace. Nebiros inflicts AoE ailments with a 100% success rate due to the combination of Ailment Boost and Ambient Aid, the latter being enabled by Gloomy Child. Again we have no uniques here, so use whatever demon you like, but I feel like Nebiros fills this role quite well thematically.

Wage War inflicts rage which notably halves defense (which stacks with Rakunda), making it the best ailment for hitting big numbers. However you can only tech off rage with Psy and Fire, so for enemies that resist those (or the rage ailment itself), we also bring Lullaby and Nocturnal Flash for sleep and dizzy, which can be teched with any attack. Interestingly a lot of enemies lack forget immunity, so we also have Makajamaon as a backup (though you can't tech off this so it's purely for defensive utility).

### Belial

| Trait: Universal Law |            |
|----------------------|------------|
| Psycho Force         | Psy Boost  |
| Inferno              | Psy Amp    |
| Magic Ability        | Fire Boost |
| Repel Bless          | Fire Amp   |

To pair with the above, we want something that can hit big techs off rage-debuffed enemies. We're not using unique skills but since we already have Alice and Nebiros in the party, there's only one right answer here. I also strongly associate Belial with fire from Devil Survivor, so he really takes the cake.

This basically the Trumpeter build from before, only with Psy and Fire instead of Psy and Nuke. The main difference is the trait, Universal Law, which gives a `1.5x` multiplier on technicals vs Mighty Gaze's `1.2x` on AoEs. This gives us `3.0x` techs, which already have a `1.8x` default multiplier, and this gets tripled on challenge difficulty. Also don't forget enemy defense is halved by rage.

### Abaddon

| Trait: Will of the Sword |             |
|--------------------------|-------------|
| One-Shot Kill            | Apt Pupil   |
| Riot Gun                 | Arms Master |
| Gun Boost                | Insta-Heal  |
| Gun Amp                  | Ali Dance   |

This build is relatively underwhelming as gun doesn't get much love in P5R, but gun resistances are quite uncommon and allow us to crit easily for extra turns even against enemies with no weaknesses, without the need to set up ailments. Any demon can be used here but there are no gun immunity passives in P5R, so something like Abaddon with inherent gun immunity is ideal in case a group of enemies contains a gun reflect.

Unfortunately there's no trait that directly boosts gun damage, but Will of the Sword *does* buff charged gun attacks. This also does not restrict us to AoE attacks like Mighty Gaze would, which allows us to run both One-Shot Kill and Riot Gun without compromise. Apt Pupil gives One-Shot Kill near-cap crit rate, but Trigger Happy doesn't give a statistically significant increase on top of this so the rest of the slots are used for utility.

## Support

### Maria

| Trait: Positive Thoughts |             |
|--------------------------|-------------|
| Salvation                | Auto-Mataru |
| Holy Benevolence         | Auto-Maraku |
| Holy Embrace             | Auto-Masuku |
| Holy Whisper             | Drain Fire  |

Auto-buffer. You should always lead with this demon to start battles with a free, 5-turn, party-wide Heat Riser that doesn't consume a turn. Don't forget to turn off Persona memory in settings to save yourself the trouble of switching back after each encounter.

Wealth of Lotus is a similar passive that works the same 99% of the time, but Positive Thoughts is marginally better in fringe cases so we may as well use it. Otherwise we keep Maria's uniques to give us easy access to heals and Recarms on a self-recovering body.

### Fafnir

| Trait: Vitality of the Tree |              |
|-----------------------------|--------------|
| Charge                      | Insta-Heal   |
| Concentrate                 | Spell Master |
| Thermopylae                 | Repel Bless  |
| Debilitate                  | Repel Curse  |

The manual buffing counterpart to our previous auto-buffer. In P5R, Charge and Concentrate apply to Joker himself, not the persona that casted it. Therefore it's optimal to have a dedicated Charge / Concentrate bot to save skill slots on our attackers. As he'll be sitting around for a turn after buffing, we're using Fafnir due to his resistances but you can use whoever you like.

Thermopylae is a party-wide Heat Riser to use when our auto-buffs run out, and the activation condition is met with Attis' Vitality of the Tree trait. We also bring Debilitate for enemy debuffs, and round out with defensive utility. I've opted for Repel Bless / Curse instead of Ali Dance as Fafnir already blocks a bunch of elements, and this gives us insta-kill immunity as an added bonus.

{% capture images %}
    {{ site.url }}/assets/res/2025-01-28-p5-demons/1709593904545373.gif
{% endcapture %}
{% include gallery images=images %}

## Cheater Personas
---

Presumably anyone who's reading this now is playing the Steam release of P5R, which means you get the DLC personas by default and you don't get a say in the matter. They're completely cracked and will entirely ruin the main game, but if you'd rather story battles be more like cutscenes or just want to power trip in NG+, then this is the culmination of my autism.

## General Purpose

### Izanagi-no-Okami

| Trait: Country Maker |             |
|----------------------|-------------|
| Myriad Truths        | Firm Stance |
| Magic Ability        | Insta-Heal  |
| Almighty Boost       | Repel Bless |
| Almighty Amp         | Repel Curse |

### Thanatos

| Trait: Omen    |             |
|----------------|-------------|
| Door of Hades  | Victory Cry |
| Mudo Boost     | Insta-Heal  |
| Almighty Boost | Ali Dance   |
| Almighty Amp   | Repel Bless |

## Elemental Damage

### Izanagi-no-Okami

| Trait: Country Maker |               |
|----------------------|---------------|
| Blazing Hell         | Magic Ability |
| Ice Age              | Spell Master  |
| Wild Thunder         | Repel Bless   |
| Vacuum Wave          | Repel Curse   |

### Kaguya

| Trait: Mighty Gaze |             |
|--------------------|-------------|
| Shining Arrows     | Bless Boost |
| Cosmic Flare       | Bless Amp   |
| Magic Ability      | Psy Boost   |
| Drain Fire         | Psy Amp     |

### Tsukiyomi

| Trait: Mighty Gaze |             |
|--------------------|-------------|
| Abyssal Wings      | Curse Boost |
| Psycho Blast       | Curse Amp   |
| Magic Ability      | Psy Boost   |
| Drain Nuke         | Psy Amp     |

## Setups / Technicals

### Raoul

| Trait: Gloomy Child |               |
|---------------------|---------------|
| Flash Bomb          | Ailment Boost |
| Phantom Show        | Ambient Aid   |
| Wage War            | Dizzy Boost   |
| Nocturnal Flash     | Repel Bless   |

It was pretty difficult to make this distinct from Nebiros but I'm happy with where I ended up. Flash Bomb will inflict pretty much all the time while doing decent chip damage. I chose it here as it has higher base damage than Dormin Rush and Oni Kagura for some reason. It's also less redundant than bringing Sleep Boost since Phantom Show is already 90% success rate.

Phantom Show only needs either Ailment Boost or Ambient Aid to hit 100% success rate, however bringing both allows us to reach 100% on Wage War and Nocturnal Flash as well. These are our fallbacks for any physical-immune enemies or when we simply want to apply rage or sleep.

### Asterius

| Trait: Universal Law |            |
|----------------------|------------|
| Titanomachia         | Fire Boost |
| Psycho Force         | Fire Amp   |
| Magic Ability        | Psy Boost  |
| Drain Ice            | Psy Amp    |

### Satanael

| Trait: Will of the Sword |               |
|--------------------------|---------------|
| One-shot Kill            | Tyrant's Mind |
| Riot Gun                 | Insta-Heal    |
| Gun Boost                | Firm Stance   |
| Gun Amp                  | Apt Pupil     |

Not technically a DLC persona (in fact, not a DLC persona at all), but he *is* NG+ locked which is kind of close? Since we're using Izanagi-no-Okami to cover the four elements, Satanael has been opened up to use for something else. I opted for a gun build as it's pretty lore-accurate and he has the 2nd highest gun damage in the game thanks to Tyrant's Mind.

This is essentially the same as the previous Abaddon gun build, just with a higher damage multiplier and a less disgusting body. Also note that Satanael isn't immune to gun damage, so be careful against gun-repel demons... [All seven of them](https://aqiu384.github.io/megaten-fusion-tool/p5r/personas).

## Support

### Orpheus F

| Trait: Positive Thoughts |               |
|--------------------------|---------------|
| Neo Cadenza              | Enduring Soul |
| Auto-Mataru              | Ali Dance     |
| Auto-Maraku              | Drain Elec    |
| Auto-Masuku              | Repel Curse   |

### Kaguya

| Trait: Inviolable Beauty |            |
|--------------------------|------------|
| Charge                   | Repel Fire |
| Concentrate              | Repel Ice  |
| Debilitate               | Repel Elec |
| Repel Phys               | Repel Psy  |

### Ariadne

| Trait: Tag Team |            |
|-----------------|------------|
| Charge          | Apt Pupil  |
| Concentrate     | Insta-Heal |
| Debilitate      | Ali Dance  |
| Beast Weaver    | Drain Psy  |


<style>
  table {
    border-collapse: collapse;
    width: 60%;
    margin: auto;
  }

  th {
    background-color: #dedede;
    padding: 5px;
    width: 20%;
  }

  td {
    padding: 5px;
  }
</style>
